# attendanceTracker
Implemented on a google sheet that acts as a dashboard for attendance data. Creates a folder to receive CSV attendance data, and then process it to generate a report for parent contact. 

The purpose of this project is to analyze attendace data to determine students who recently accumulated 3, 5, or 7 absences, to comply with state parent contact laws. 

On setup, creates a afolder around itself. Within this folder is a subfolder for attendacne reports generated by Infinite Campus. The ID of the folder is saved, so that the sheet script can access the reports. 

The script reads the attendace CSV files, consolidates them, and compares the new totals to the totals saved the last time the script was run. For students who have an increase in their totals, if they passed their 3rd, 5th, or 7th absence, it adds their name to the dashboard under the absence number. 

There is also a menu button that allows for direct logging of names and contact reasons to the parent contact form, for each absence number. Using this menu button, teachers can also send a notification to the student's counselors for when they accumulate their 7th absence. The script splits students by counslor based on the alphbetical caseload split, and emails the relevant counslor a list of student names. 

Once the contacts have been done, the script clears the dashboard and deletes the processed CSV files. 

There is a check of the number of files in the attendacne report folder. On set up, users set how many classes they have. The script expects this many reports in the folder. 

There is also a check to see if a teacher uploaded the same classes report twice, by checking for a duplicate student name as the first student in two reports. 
